README.md, before:

# OpenAssistant

[Documentation](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app) |
[Playground](https://openassistant-playground.vercel.app)

OpenAssistant is a javascript library for building AI assistant with powerful tools and an interactive React chat component.

## Why OpenAssistant?

OpenAssistant is built based on [Vercel AI SDK](https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs) and provides:

- a uniform interface for different AI providers
- a set of powerful LLM tools (data analysis, visualization, mapping, etc.)
- an interactive React chat component (optional)

for building your own AI assistant, along with a design allows you to easily create your own tools by :

- providing your own context (e.g. data, callbacks etc.) for the tool execution
- providing your own UI component for rendering the tool result
- passing the result from the tool execution to the tool UI component or next tool execution.

Check out the following examples using OpenAssistant in action:

- [kepler.gl AI Assistant (kepler.gl)](https://location.foursquare.com/resources/blog/products/foursquare-brings-enterprise-grade-spatial-analytics-to-your-browser-with-kepler-gl-3-1/)
- [GeoDa.AI AI Assistant (geoda.ai)](https://geoda.ai)
- [SqlRooms (sqlrooms.org)](https://sqlrooms-ai.netlify.app/)


## Getting Started

### Installation

Install the core packages:

```bash
npm install @openassistant/core
```

### Usage

Then, you can use the OpenAssistant in your application. For example:

```ts
import { createAssistant } from '@openassistant/core';

// get the singleton assistant instance
const assistant = await createAssistant({
  name: 'assistant',
  modelProvider: 'openai',
  model: 'gpt-4o',
  apiKey: 'your-api-key',
  version: '0.0.1',
  instructions: 'You are a helpful assistant',
  // functions: {{}},
  // abortController: null
});

// now you can send prompts to the assistant
await assistant.processTextMessage({
  textMessage: 'Hello, how are you?',
  streamMessageCallback: ({ isCompleted, message }) => {
    console.log(isCompleted, message);
  },
});
```

See the source code of the example 🔗 [here](https://github.com/GeoDaCenter/openassistant/tree/main/examples/cli_example).

:::tip

If you want to use Google Gemini as the model provider, you can do the following:

Install vercel google gemini client:

```bash
npm install @ai-sdk/google
```

Then, you can use update the assistant configuration to use Google Gemini.

OpenAssistant also supports the following model providers:

| Model Provider | Models                                                                                             | Dependency         |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| OpenAI         | [link](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/openai#model-capabilities)                 | @ai-sdk/openai     |
| Google         | [models](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/google-generative-ai#model-capabilities) | @ai-sdk/google     |
| Anthropic      | [models](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/anthropic#model-capabilities)            | @ai-sdk/anthropic  |
| DeepSeek       | [models](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/deepseek#model-capabilities)             | @ai-sdk/deepseek   |
| xAI            | [models](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/xai#model-capabilities)                  | @ai-sdk/xai        |
| Ollama         | [models](https://ollama.com/models)                                                                | ollama-ai-provider |

:::

### Add a React Chat Component to your App

You can build your own chat interface along with the assistant instance created by `createAssistant()`. OpenAssistant also provides a pre-built chat component that you can use in your React application.

#### Installation

```bash
npm install @openassistant/ui
```

#### Usage

```tsx
import { AiAssistant } from '@openassistant/ui';
// for React app without tailwindcss, you can import the css file
// import '@openassistant/ui/dist/index.css';

function App() {
  return (
    <AiAssistant
      modelProvider="openai"
      model="gpt-4"
      apiKey="your-api-key"
      version="v1"
      welcomeMessage="Hello! How can I help you today?"
      instructions="You are a helpful assistant."
      functions={{}}
      theme="dark"
      useMarkdown={true}
      showTools={true}
      onMessageUpdated=({messages}) => {
        console.log(messages);
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

<img src="https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/img/getstart-dark.png" width="300" />

See the source code of the example 🔗 [here](https://github.com/geodacenter/openassistant/tree/main/examples/simple_react).

:::tip

If you are using TailwindCSS, you need to add the following configurations to your `tailwind.config.js` file:

```tsx
import { nextui } from '@nextui-org/react';
...

module.exports = {
  content: [
    ...,
    './node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}',
    './node_modules/@openassistant/ui/dist/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}',
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  darkMode: 'class',
  plugins: [nextui()],
};
```

See the source code of the example 🔗 [here](https://github.com/geodacenter/openassistant/tree/main/examples/react_tailwind).
:::

## Use Tools

OpenAssistant provides a set of tools that helps you build your AI application.

- [DuckDB tools](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-extras/duckdb-plugin)
- [ECharts tools](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-extras/echarts-plugin)
- [Kepler.gl tools](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-extras/keplergl-plugin)
- [Data Analysis tools](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-extras/geoda-plugin)

For a quick example:

**localQuery** in @openassistant/duckdb

This tool helps to query any data that has been loaded in your application using user's prompt.

- the data in your application will be loaded into a local duckdb instance temporarily
- LLM will generate SQL query based on user's prompt against the data
- the SQL query result will be executed in the local duckdb instance
- the query result will be displayed in a React table component

In your application, the data could be loaded from a csv/json/parquet/xml file. For this example, we will use the `SAMPLE_DATASETS` in `dataset.ts` to simulate the data.

```ts
export const SAMPLE_DATASETS = {
  myVenues: [
    {
      index: 0,
      location: 'New York',
      latitude: 40.7128,
      longitude: -74.006,
      revenue: 12500000,
      population: 8400000,
    },
    ...
  ],
};
```

- Import the `localQuery` tool from `@openassistent/duckdb` and use it in your application.
- Provide the `getValues` function in the `context` to get the values from your data.
- Use the tool in your AI assistant chat component

```ts
import { localQuery, LocalQueryTool } from '@openassistent/duckdb';

// load your data
// pass the metadata of the data to the assistant instructions
const instructions = `You are a helpful assistant. You can use the following datasets to answer the user's question:
  datasetName: myVenues,
  variables: index, location, latitude, longitude, revenue, population
  `;

// use `LocalQueryTool` for type safety
const localQueryTool: LocalQueryTool = {
  ...localQuery,
  context: {
    ...localQuery.context,
    getValues: (datasetName: string, variableName: string) => {
      return SAMPLE_DATASETS[datasetName][variableName];
    },
  },
};

// use the tool in the chat component
<AiAssistant
  modelProvider="openai"
  model="gpt-4o"
  apiKey="your-api-key"
  version="0.0.1"
  welcomeMessage="Hello! How can I help you today?"
  instructions={instructions}
  functions={{ localQuery: localQueryTool }}
/>
```

🚀 Try it out!

<img width="400" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4115b474-13af-48ba-b69e-b39cc325f1b1"/>

See the source code of the example 🔗 [here](https://github.com/geodacenter/openassistant/tree/main/examples/duckdb_esbuild).

## 🌟 Features

- 🤖 **One interface for multiple AI providers**
  - DeepSeek (Chat and Reasoner)
  - OpenAI (GPT models)
  - Google Gemini
  - Ollama (local AI models)
  - XAI Grok
  - Anthropic Claude
  - AWS Bedrock\*
  - Azure OpenAI\*

\* via server API only, see [how-to documentation here](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/blog/server-support)

- 🌟 **Easy-to-use Tools to extend your AI assistant**

  - DuckDB: in-browser query data using duckdb via prompt
  - ECharts: visualize data using echarts via prompt
  - KeplerGl: create maps using keplergl via prompt
  - GeoDa: apply spatial data analysis using geoda wasm via prompt

- 🎯 **Built-in React chat component**
  - Pre-built chat interface
  - Pre-built LLM configuration interface
  - Theme support
  - Take screenshot to ask [[Demo]](https://geoda.ai/img/highlight-screenshot.mp4)
  - Talk to ask [[Demo]](https://geoda.ai/img/highlight-ai-talk.mp4)
  - Function calling support [[Demo]](https://geoda.ai/img/highlight-prompt.mp4)

See the [tutorial](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-basics/screencapture) for more details.

- 📦 **Easy integration**
  - CLI tool for adding components
  - TypeScript support
  - Tailwind CSS integration

## 🎯 Examples

Check out our example projects:

- [Basic Example](examples/cli_example/README.md)
- [Custom Function Example](examples/zod_function_tools/README.md)
- [Multiple Step Tools](examples/multisteps_tools/README.md)
- [Message Persistence Example](examples/message_persistence/README.md)
- [Simple React Example](examples/simple_react/README.md)
- [React with TailwindCSS Example](examples/react_tailwind/README.md)
- [Tool Example: ECharts](examples/echarts_plugin/README.md)
- [Tool Example: DuckDB](examples/duckdb_esbuild/README.md)
- [Tool Example: KeplerGl](examples/keplergl_plugin/README.md)
- [Tool Example: DeckGl](examples/deckgl_assistant/README.md)

## 📄 License

MIT © [Xun Li](mailto:lixun910@gmail.com)

Commit message:

chore: update version number to 0.3.1

README.md, after:

# OpenAssistant

[Documentation](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app) |
[Playground](https://openassistant-playground.vercel.app)

OpenAssistant is a javascript library for building AI assistant with powerful tools and an interactive React chat component.

## Why OpenAssistant?

OpenAssistant is built based on [Vercel AI SDK](https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs) and provides:

- a uniform interface for different AI providers
- a set of powerful LLM tools (data analysis, visualization, mapping, etc.)
- an interactive React chat component (optional)

for building your own AI assistant, along with a design allows you to easily create your own tools by :

- providing your own context (e.g. data, callbacks etc.) for the tool execution
- providing your own UI component for rendering the tool result
- passing the result from the tool execution to the tool UI component or next tool execution.

### Why do I need LLM tools?

LLMs are fundamentally statistical language models that predict the next tokens based on the context. While emergent behaviors such as learning, reasoning, and tool use enhance the model’s capabilities, LLMs do not natively perform precise or complex computations and algorithms. For example, when asked to compute the square root of a random decimal number, ChatGPT typically provides an incorrect answer unless its Python tool is explicitly called to perform the calculation. This limitation becomes even more apparent with complex tasks in engineering and scientific domains. Providing computational tools for LLMs offers a solution for overcoming this problem and helps you successfully integrate LLMs with your applications.

Check out the following examples using OpenAssistant in action:

- [kepler.gl AI Assistant (kepler.gl)](https://location.foursquare.com/resources/blog/products/foursquare-brings-enterprise-grade-spatial-analytics-to-your-browser-with-kepler-gl-3-1/)
- [GeoDa.AI AI Assistant (geoda.ai)](https://geoda.ai)
- [SqlRooms (sqlrooms.org)](https://sqlrooms-ai.netlify.app/)

<img width="513" alt="Screenshot 2025-04-25 at 10 22 08 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/234aeaf3-0a70-486a-92f6-71eff957af49" />

[An example of using osm, spatial join, and map tools with LLM]

## Getting Started

### Installation

Install the core packages:

```bash
npm install @openassistant/core
```

### Usage

Then, you can use the OpenAssistant in your application. For example:

```ts
import { createAssistant } from '@openassistant/core';

// get the singleton assistant instance
const assistant = await createAssistant({
  name: 'assistant',
  modelProvider: 'openai',
  model: 'gpt-4o',
  apiKey: 'your-api-key',
  version: '0.0.1',
  instructions: 'You are a helpful assistant',
  // functions: {{}},
  // abortController: null
});

// now you can send prompts to the assistant
await assistant.processTextMessage({
  textMessage: 'Hello, how are you?',
  streamMessageCallback: ({ isCompleted, message }) => {
    console.log(isCompleted, message);
  },
});
```

See the source code of the example 🔗 [here](https://github.com/GeoDaCenter/openassistant/tree/main/examples/cli_example).

:::tip

If you want to use Google Gemini as the model provider, you can do the following:

Install vercel google gemini client:

```bash
npm install @ai-sdk/google
```

Then, you can use update the assistant configuration to use Google Gemini.

OpenAssistant also supports the following model providers:

| Model Provider | Models                                                                                             | Dependency         |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| OpenAI         | [link](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/openai#model-capabilities)                 | @ai-sdk/openai     |
| Google         | [models](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/google-generative-ai#model-capabilities) | @ai-sdk/google     |
| Anthropic      | [models](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/anthropic#model-capabilities)            | @ai-sdk/anthropic  |
| DeepSeek       | [models](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/deepseek#model-capabilities)             | @ai-sdk/deepseek   |
| xAI            | [models](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/xai#model-capabilities)                  | @ai-sdk/xai        |
| Ollama         | [models](https://ollama.com/models)                                                                | ollama-ai-provider |

:::

### Add a React Chat Component to your App

You can build your own chat interface along with the assistant instance created by `createAssistant()`. OpenAssistant also provides a pre-built chat component that you can use in your React application.

#### Installation

```bash
npm install @openassistant/ui
```

#### Usage

```tsx
import { AiAssistant } from '@openassistant/ui';
// for React app without tailwindcss, you can import the css file
// import '@openassistant/ui/dist/index.css';

function App() {
  return (
    <AiAssistant
      modelProvider="openai"
      model="gpt-4"
      apiKey="your-api-key"
      version="v1"
      welcomeMessage="Hello! How can I help you today?"
      instructions="You are a helpful assistant."
      functions={{}}
      theme="dark"
      useMarkdown={true}
      showTools={true}
      onMessageUpdated=({messages}) => {
        console.log(messages);
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

<img src="https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/img/getstart-dark.png" width="300" />

See the source code of the example 🔗 [here](https://github.com/geodacenter/openassistant/tree/main/examples/simple_react).

:::tip

If you are using TailwindCSS, you need to add the following configurations to your `tailwind.config.js` file:

```tsx
import { nextui } from '@nextui-org/react';
...

module.exports = {
  content: [
    ...,
    './node_modules/@nextui-org/theme/dist/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}',
    './node_modules/@openassistant/ui/dist/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}',
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  darkMode: 'class',
  plugins: [nextui()],
};
```

See the source code of the example 🔗 [here](https://github.com/geodacenter/openassistant/tree/main/examples/react_tailwind).
:::

## Use Tools

OpenAssistant provides a set of tools that helps you build your AI application.

- [DuckDB tools](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-extras/duckdb-plugin)
- [ECharts tools](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-extras/echarts-plugin)
- [Kepler.gl tools](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-extras/keplergl-plugin)
- [Data Analysis tools](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-extras/geoda-plugin)

For a quick example:

**localQuery** in @openassistant/duckdb

This tool helps to query any data that has been loaded in your application using user's prompt.

- the data in your application will be loaded into a local duckdb instance temporarily
- LLM will generate SQL query based on user's prompt against the data
- the SQL query result will be executed in the local duckdb instance
- the query result will be displayed in a React table component

In your application, the data could be loaded from a csv/json/parquet/xml file. For this example, we will use the `SAMPLE_DATASETS` in `dataset.ts` to simulate the data.

```ts
export const SAMPLE_DATASETS = {
  myVenues: [
    {
      index: 0,
      location: 'New York',
      latitude: 40.7128,
      longitude: -74.006,
      revenue: 12500000,
      population: 8400000,
    },
    ...
  ],
};
```

- Import the `localQuery` tool from `@openassistent/duckdb` and use it in your application.
- Provide the `getValues` function in the `context` to get the values from your data.
- Use the tool in your AI assistant chat component

```ts
import { localQuery, LocalQueryTool } from '@openassistent/duckdb';

// load your data
// pass the metadata of the data to the assistant instructions
const instructions = `You are a helpful assistant. You can use the following datasets to answer the user's question:
  datasetName: myVenues,
  variables: index, location, latitude, longitude, revenue, population
  `;

// use `LocalQueryTool` for type safety
const localQueryTool: LocalQueryTool = {
  ...localQuery,
  context: {
    ...localQuery.context,
    getValues: (datasetName: string, variableName: string) => {
      return SAMPLE_DATASETS[datasetName][variableName];
    },
  },
};

// use the tool in the chat component
<AiAssistant
  modelProvider="openai"
  model="gpt-4o"
  apiKey="your-api-key"
  version="0.0.1"
  welcomeMessage="Hello! How can I help you today?"
  instructions={instructions}
  functions={{ localQuery: localQueryTool }}
/>
```

🚀 Try it out!

<img width="400" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4115b474-13af-48ba-b69e-b39cc325f1b1"/>

See the source code of the example 🔗 [here](https://github.com/geodacenter/openassistant/tree/main/examples/duckdb_esbuild).

## 🌟 Features

- 🤖 **One interface for multiple AI providers**
  - DeepSeek (Chat and Reasoner)
  - OpenAI (GPT models)
  - Google Gemini
  - Ollama (local AI models)
  - XAI Grok
  - Anthropic Claude
  - AWS Bedrock\*
  - Azure OpenAI\*

\* via server API only, see [how-to documentation here](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/blog/server-support)

- 🌟 **Easy-to-use Tools to extend your AI assistant**

  - DuckDB: in-browser query data using duckdb via prompt
  - ECharts: visualize data using echarts via prompt
  - KeplerGl: create maps using keplergl via prompt
  - GeoDa: apply spatial data analysis using geoda wasm via prompt

- 🎯 **Built-in React chat component**
  - Pre-built chat interface
  - Pre-built LLM configuration interface
  - Theme support
  - Take screenshot to ask [[Demo]](https://geoda.ai/img/highlight-screenshot.mp4)
  - Talk to ask [[Demo]](https://geoda.ai/img/highlight-ai-talk.mp4)
  - Function calling support [[Demo]](https://geoda.ai/img/highlight-prompt.mp4)

See the [tutorial](https://openassistant-doc.vercel.app/docs/tutorial-basics/screencapture) for more details.

- 📦 **Easy integration**
  - CLI tool for adding components
  - TypeScript support
  - Tailwind CSS integration

## 🎯 Examples

Check out our example projects:

- [Basic Example](examples/cli_example/README.md)
- [Custom Function Example](examples/zod_function_tools/README.md)
- [Multiple Step Tools](examples/multisteps_tools/README.md)
- [Message Persistence Example](examples/message_persistence/README.md)
- [Simple React Example](examples/simple_react/README.md)
- [React with TailwindCSS Example](examples/react_tailwind/README.md)
- [Tool Example: ECharts](examples/echarts_plugin/README.md)
- [Tool Example: DuckDB](examples/duckdb_esbuild/README.md)
- [Tool Example: KeplerGl](examples/keplergl_plugin/README.md)
- [Tool Example: DeckGl](examples/deckgl_assistant/README.md)

## 📄 License

MIT © [Xun Li](mailto:lixun910@gmail.com)
